If scientists need to be fearless, I
think entrepreneurs need to be more
fearless. Um, fearless to me, I love
this word and this is part of the way I
actually do hiring is look for people,
especially young people with that
fearlessness. Um, fearlessness. Um, fear
fearless is to be free. is to be to get
rid of the shackles that constrain your
creativity, your courage, and your
ability to just get done. And
pardon my language, it's uh it's
actually
>> it's a technical term.
>> Yes.
One thing I feel very strongly is in the
AI age, trust cannot be outsourced to
machines. Trust is fundamentally human.
It's at the individual level, community
level, and societal level. Some of you
might be just in the infrastructure,
SAS, whatever. Um, you know, application
that feels like maybe um that's more
removed. That's not true cuz you're
serving people. You're serving
businesses. Trust is really important.
Have that human agency as the as the the
the um the source of of the trust.
Hey folks, this week on the show we're
sharing Reed Hoffman's conversation with
Dr. Fay Lee from our 2025 Masters of
Scale Summit. FE is a brilliant computer
scientist and author who has been at the
forefront of AI development for decades.
She was a founding director of
Stanford's human- centered AI institute
and is now the co-founder and CEO of
World Labs. She joined Reed on stage for
candid reflections on where we are and
where we're headed as AI evolves. I
think you'll enjoy this.
This is Masters of Scale.
I've lost count of the number of times
we've done this and it's always awesome
and an honor. So, thank you for being
here.
>> Thank you. I I've lost count, too.
Um, so one of the things that obviously
anyone who's following your career knows
that you're one of the OG in the in the
wave of AI, you know, ImageNet,
um, all of these things that are, uh,
contributions that are fundamental to
where we are today. So, by the way,
thank you for that. Um, and now you're
working on spatial intelligence and uh,
kind of uh, world building. say a little
bit about why you uh you know kind of
took a a sbatical from the job you love
with you know human- centered AI and and
Stanford CS and started building this
company and what you're doing
>> right uh Reed again thank you for
inviting me it's so uh what an honor to
be here and I think you're referring to
my startup that I'm a co-founder CEO of
which is called World Labs so you know
Reed you are one of the original uh
supporters, investors of open AI. So
when open AI was founded, you and I
talked about the dream of AGI, right? As
a AI scientist, um
I'm torn between the word AI versus AGI
because they more or less mean the same
thing for me. But language aside, what
is
>> actually I use AGI for the AI we haven't
invented yet.
>> Okay, that's great.
Um I think Alan T to actually John
McCarthy probably meant the same but um
so what is AGI to me? AGI to me is the
capability of in intelligence of
machines that um are on par with humans
and in many cases can be uh superseding
humans. And I think think about this as
a door to the future and on this door
there are multiple keyholes and language
is one of them one of the major ones
because language is an essential part of
uh intelligence to to the point that I
know you are a quasi philosophy major
that uh Vigenstein
quasi is actually a a positive word at
at Stanford I have to say because Reed
is an alumni uh there's a very special
uh uh major called um Sims uh symbolic
symbolic systems. They combine
philosophy and cognitive science and
computer science.
>> By the way, I was the eighth person to
declare that major.
>> Oh my god. So many famous people uh come
out of that major. Yeah. So quasi it
just means the the the the proportion.
So it's it's a good word. Um
>> he'll correct me later, but that's all
right.
>> I'm digging myself out of a hole.
Um Vigenstein says that um uh language
defines the limit of world.
>> Yes,
>> I'm actually not disagreeing with that.
>> Excellent.
>> Because I think language um defines a
certain level of boundary that the world
can be described in symbolic forms but
beyond that the world is actually
limitless. uh and uh and what is that
world? How do we define that? What does
that have to do with intelligence? And
how do we use machines to express that?
I lump that whole thing into world
modeling. World modeling is is very
connected to language. But it's about um
expressing, representing and eventually
participating in the changes of uh the
states of the world. And that could be
virtual, it could be physical. And what
does world modeling entail? It does
entail language because language is one
form of interrogation with the world.
But it also in entails uh the visual,
the lights, the semantics, the space,
the physical actions. And all of that is
still at the dawn and and and in the in
the it's the next phase of AI. And
that's what world labs is about. We are
trying to do world modeling and we're
trying to bring that level of spatial
intelligence into the next chapter of
AI.
>> So two questions with the spatial
intelligence one how would you know
because there are a few people who will
be deep here but a lot of people their
primary experience of LLM is like you
know chatbt Gemini etc. Um and um so
like what what should they understand is
different not just in the cognitive
capabilities cuz the the our our our
world is not just language and then two
like what are the what is the the road
ahead look like? What are some of the
challenges to overcome in getting there?
>> Yeah. What what would it get us when we
have world modeling? Well um we're
already seeing budding signs of that.
Lots of storytellers are creatives with
many media, right? Uh whether it's
pixels, movies, um uh uh sculptures, um
digital art. And that is a highly highly
creative interactive
world that you cannot just use language
to express. and uh world modeling. The
ability to generate things to generate
worlds that you can immerse yourself in,
you can interact with is highly uh
enticing and and exciting for for
creators. And that's one way you see
world modeling could be applied for.
This is not just for entertainment and
and storytelling. This could be for
design. This is could be for even
industrial uses. uh all the way to
healthcare, medicine, education. Also,
um the the distance between passively
being passively entertained and being
actively participating in experiences
right now has been closing um rapidly.
And the ability to have machines to
create world models that would allow
that kind of immersive uh experiences is
really powerful. and and that also
seguates into simulation. Simulation is
really important both for human
experiences, human learning as well as
for embodied AI. Robots needs to learn
from simulation as well as much as it
needs to learn from uh uh from the real
world. And we can we can really nerd out
about the the history of robots
including self-driving cars and the the
critical roles that simulation has has
played. So, so the application and and
uh uh it it really is boundless. Uh what
are the challenges? I'll just call out
one challenges. Well, there are actually
many challenges. Uh one challenge is
data unlike language where data is all
over the internet. Um when it comes to
world modeling, data is not as uh
obvious and and and easily obtainable
compared to language. Of course, there
are video data that's one of the most uh
critical form of data for world
modeling. But the world like I said is
very multimodel. It is very spatial. It
it has fundamental 3D information,
geometry, physics, dynamics and some of
those are not easily obtainable. And so
um there's obviously been a lot of
discussion around robotics and
one of the things I think we should draw
the line for everyone is to understand
how critical world modeling will be to
any kind of robotic ele elevation of
work and the human condition. So say a
little bit about like why this cognitive
set is so important there.
>> Yeah great question. I spent a lot of
time thinking about that because uh
frankly after image that after the first
wave of uh uh computer vision achieving
a level of fidelity and quality I
actually went into a little bit of a
crisis myself and start to soul search
what is perception about what is vision
for right I thought it would take me
aundred years to to work on the problem
of uh of object recogn definition, but
it it went a little faster than I
thought. So, I needed another uh north
star. And uh it took me back to uh
evolution. And I I started to read a lot
about um evolution and some philos I'm
like literally this much of a philosophy
uh student compared to Reed. um is that
um about 530 million years ago there was
an incredible evolutionary event called
Cambrian explosion where the the animal
speciation just exploded where it's also
the beginning of the nervous system uh
nervous system the beginning of uh
photosensitive uh cells and it really
after reading a lot of literature and
thinking it really dawned on me the the
um the goal the evolutionary reason
animals have perception
is actually for activity for
interactivity. It's active. It's not
percept uh it's not passive and that
means perception and the perceptual
intelligence is the foundation of
movement
and the beginning of movement is very uh
simple. You just kind of translate your
body somewhere. Quickly the movement
becomes much more interactive and and
you know from fighting for food to
mating to nesting to uh rearing
offsprings to much deeper. I mean look
at mammals and and humans. Our ability
to move is very very complex. The degree
of freedom we have between our fingers,
toes and body, torso is very high. And
all this requires a fundamental
perceptual spatial intelligence of the
world we're in so that we know we
understand and we can plan for all the
movements. So really truly in my opinion
that the the level of um nuanced complex
spatial world understanding is the brain
of embodied intelligence including
robots.
>> Yeah. Yeah. And and actually, you know,
while the robots give a particular sense
where you need that embodied
intelligence for them to all be
embodied, there will also of course be a
little bit like your opening comment on
Vickenstein. The question of actual
cognitive reasoning capabilities that
are not just purely linguistic like this
is getting a little philosophical and
looking forward.
>> I love that.
>> But part of what you get with spatial
intelligence is other forms of
intelligence that will even be important
there. It isn't just in a pure
perception action loop cuz you know the
the old western perception as a camera
and action as separate is clearly wrong.
That was the thing that you were just
you know referring to.
>> But it will also increase our cognitive
capabilities or like the what we how we
imagine the world, how we model it in
our heads. What are some of the
reasoning characteristics you think
might come out from when you add spatial
intelligence not just to robots but to
every AI system?
>> That's wonderful. Reed, this is why I
love talking to you. So throughout human
civilization, if you look at the
milestones of um humans building
civilization, there's a lot of
milestones that cannot possibly be
achieved with just language. The the the
nuance of uh space and spatial re
reasoning, world modeling is very very
clear. For example, let's just take uh
early days the building of pyramid,
right? The the the ability to start to
abstract geometry, the sense of geometry
and and also the construction of large
um um bodies. There is a lot of things
that goes on into that uh cognitive
spatial um um reasoning that that's not
this simplistic transa transactional
uh behavior of I see something I want to
move it right
>> another example I I'll just give two
example another example is the deduction
of the structure of DNA if you know the
history of how DNA was uh uh I've
discovered of course many scientists
were getting a vibe using today's
language that there's something there's
something that's going on in this
fundamental building block of our uh uh
genetics but it took um uh Franklin uh
Rosalene Franklin under uh appreciated
scientists to take these X-ray I think
it was X-ray or some kind of X-ray
imagery of the DNA molecules right?
X-ray that looks like this on it's a
cross on a on a flat uh imagery.
>> But then Francis Crick and uh James
Watson of course they they were deeply
thinking about this. But to go from this
imagery to a 3D double helix intertwined
structure
>> is deeply spatial.
>> Yeah.
>> You cannot language your way into this
deduction. I'm sure language
participated. I'm not anti- language,
you know. I love being
>> I speak I am pro language.
>> Exactly. Exactly. Um but that is a a
beautiful example of humans using
spatial reasoning and cognitive ability
uh to to do something or discover
something uh we've never done. So I
think that as we empower AI with this
ability, this is not just for robots
that can, you know, pick up a pick up a
glasses or or a cube. This is for uh
lifting all of humanity's capability
because we can collaborate with machines
um having this capability.
>> Yeah. Awesome. And I actually have never
heard the DNA answer from you before. So
I love asking you questions that you've
that I have never asked you before. It's
one of the things that's that's awesome.
Um so switching to you know kind of one
general thing is obviously there's a lot
of discourse around is AI overhyped
underhyped. We're obviously here in the
valley so everyone in the valley more or
less thinks underhyped. you know, people
want to say the um uh you know, kind of
the question of like, well, is it um are
we going to go through another AI
winner? What's your kind of view about
this discussion about what's going on
with AI? What would you say? Hey, this
is the parts that are underhyped. These
are the parts that are maybe a little
too soon, right? Versus overhyped.
What should what's the guide to the wise
on the current discourse and see uh
sorting wheat from chaff a little bit?
>> Oh boy, I have to be careful how I
answer this question, but I totally
appreciate this. Um
AI is a civilizational um technology.
I'm I'm not the only one saying this,
but I truly believe because uh it is
even if you're inspired by humans and
evolution, this is the ability to
intellectualize and to think to do is
fundamental to um to to humans and a
piece of technology that can do that is
is phenomenal. uh it's in my opinion
it's more or less not not overhyped as a
intellectual future of the humanity
because AI is the new computing if you
look at today's world and just recognize
where there are chips you know because
chips are the physical places where
computing happens from a light bulb to a
self-driving car to an airplane
everywhere there's chips well it's very
obvious at this point wherever there is
chip there's compute wherever there's
compute there will be AI if it's not
there so from that point of view both
from a business as well as use case
point of view a AI is the future
obviously um when it comes to hype I do
think we have to be uh a bit nuanced for
example there are really you know we I
think we were just saying backstage. It
took more than 20 years to go from um
Sebastian Thrum's um um first
self-driving car that can drive a car
130 miles in the Nevada desert which has
no traffic apparently. Um to Whimo
running in um uh San Francisco, right?
Well, you might say, well, because part
of it is software it was pre-deep
learning age and uh software uh
development was slower. You're right.
It's uh definitely deep learning
accelerated the brains of self-driving
car. But let's also not forget that car
industry, the entire supply chain as
well as customer use basis has been
established for more than 100 years and
it's a very very mature business model
and very mature infrastructure and and
manufacturing and everything. So if it
took 20 years to get just cars, which is
the simplest form of robot um um on the
street, you know,
>> Roombas, but you know,
>> I I was thinking I knew he's going to
say that. Yes. So yeah. Well, Roombas
are mini cars.
>> Yes. So um rumors actually I think cars
are
you know it's literally a squareish box
that moves on 2D surface and the only
thing you have to do is not to touch
anything
right cuz if you touch you're screwed
and
robots does touch and by and large it's
okay. Um but robots the the whole thing
about robot is it's a threedimensional
machine that that the whole goal is to
touch things.
>> Yeah.
>> And touch it in the right way. I mean
this is huge. So I think there's still
going to be a journey for robotics for
sure. Yeah.
>> 100%. So one of the things to realize
this uh civilization technology is to
build trust and whether it's through
technologists companies etc etc. What do
you think the things we should be doing
as leaders as as companies as
entrepreneurs to help build trust
because it's obviously we only start
realizing the real benefits once we get
there.
>> Yeah great question. I know you and I
both care about this. One thing I feel
very strongly is in the AI age trust
cannot be outsourced to machines. Trust
is fundamentally human. It's at the
individual level, community level and
societal level. And this is why Reed was
part of our supporters for the human
center AI institute at uh Stanford. We
we established that um 2018. So uh way
before the this latest wave of uh uh uh
AI u blossoming is because we re
recognize that um as machines get more
powerful in its computing and reasoning
and and eventually even uh actionable uh
capabilities. Uh we need to establish a
new norm that is needs to be part of the
fabric of the society where in within
this norm humans continue to have the
agency to uh build trust with each other
with the newer tools like AI with more
powerful product like chat bots and and
other things and eventually this trust
has to be renewed or or updated into our
governance model not just the governance
of community and companies but
governance of of the society at large.
So I do think trust is a very very
important uh um element for though this
audience is very entrepreneurheavy.
I would just say that
care about this from the beginning no
matter what product or business you're
doing. Some of you might be in
healthcare. You know how important it
is. Some of you might be just in the
infrastructure SAS whatever um you know
application that feels like maybe um
that's more removed. That's not true
because you're serving people. You're
serving businesses. Trust is really
important. have that human agency as the
as the the the um the source of of the
trust.
>> Yep. Uh 100%. And uh you know part of
when Yes.
um you know part of the work that you
know you and etch were leading with the
human- centered AI which came from your
uh New York Times column um which is
part of the christristening of it is
part of the thing that led me to
focusing on agency is one of the things
that elevation of human agency as one of
the key things that we need to do. Um
uh you know one of the things I love
talking to you is like we could
literally fee and I could go on for
hours. We only have a few minutes left.
Um, but it's like ambient intelligence,
you know, for what does that mean for
medical care? There's just all these
things as part of the whole OG thing
like and and and on every subject you go
deep. So, let's go to kind of the
science side of it.
>> Um, for perhaps our closing question,
which is um you said it's important for
scientists to be intellectually
fearless.
So um you know kind of have a
fearlessness about it. Um what does that
mean for how we should think about
inventing the future? What does that
mean for how science should progress?
What's the what in the terms of the next
generation of innovators? Um where
should fearlessness play into that?
>> Great. Thanks for asking that question.
Well, if scientists need to be fearless,
I think entrepreneurs need to be more
fearless. Um, fearless to me, I love
this word that this is part of the way I
actually do hiring is look for people,
especially young people with that
fearlessness.
>> Um, fearlessness.
>> Um, fear fearless is to be free, is to
be to get rid of the shackles that
constrain your creativity, your courage,
and your ability to just get done.
And pardon my language, it's uh it's
actually
>> it's a technical term.
>> Yes.
>> It's actually in our core culture of our
company.
So um is that um you know humans are not
exactly the most fastest, strongest, you
know, animals on earth, right? We
we were if you look at many of the
dimensions, I was just in Africa this
summer with my kids. I mean there's
there's so many animals that are just so
much better than us but but I I do feel
that way and
>> lots
>> yes and uh but there's something that is
in our brain in our mind in our soul
that can propel us to do incredible
things for the world for ourselves for
each other and a lot of that come from
our fundamental uniqueness of our
creativity. ity and our sense of
community, our and all this. And in
order to unleash that, especially as
technology is moving so fast,
to me the the foundational emotional
criteria is be be creative, be free. And
that translate into be fearless. Run
into uncertainties. Run into bold ideas
that no one has make it happen yet. Run
into contrarian hypothesis. Run into
hard hard tasks. Um, someone said, I
forgot who said that the
easy tasks tasks that are so uh certain
versus tasks that are uncertain are
sometimes equally hard.
>> TR's the one that's more uncertain
because you know your fre uh your
creativity will be working harder and
that's where the the magic happens. So,
I I love the word fearless because
that's where boundaries are broken and
creativities are unleashed and uh and
magical things happen.
And
and with that, you can see why we wanted
to open the first fireside with Fay.
Let's give her a hand.
>> Thank you. Thank you.
>> Thanks to Dr. Dr. Faith A Lee for
joining us at the Masters of Scale
Summit. This conversation was recorded
on stage at the Presidio Theater in San
Francisco.